---
number-sections: false
authors:
    - name: H. E. U Ohn Winn
---

# Foreword {.unnumbered}

Myanmar has always benefitted from our ecosystems for our wellbeing, our livelihoods and our
economy. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation (MONREC) strives
for managing the natural resources including its forests and minerals as well as natural ecosystems
for the benefit of both current and future generations. To ensure this future we must embrace
Nature-based solutions (NBS). These solutions are actions to protect, sustainably manage, and
restore our natural and modified ecosystems. That is why it is my pleasure to welcome Myanmar's
first Red List of Ecosystems. Our red list will be a valuable tool to support our decisions and
investments that simultaneously provide human well-being and biodiversity benefits.

Myanmar's Red List of Ecosystems has recognized and evaluated 64 ecosystem types. We now
understand that almost half of our ecosystems are not threatened, and their intactness is clearly an
important asset for Myanmar's future. Unfortunately, we also recognize that three of our
ecosystems have changed so drastically that they could be very close to collapse; and can
understand that eight of our ecosystems are Critically Endangered, nine are Endangered and twelve
are Vulnerable so we need to ensure that these ecosystems are protected, restored and never lost.
In understanding these ecosystems, we have a much finer view of the incredible diversity Myanmar
supports and how we can work towards reaching our Forest Policy (1995), our 30-year National
Forestry Master Plan targets and the fulfilment of international commitments including Nationally
Determined Contributions (NDCs), Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Aichi Biodiversity
Targets, etc. MONREC also has a responsibility to manage our freshwater and saline wetlands and
the marine realm. In protecting all of our natural resources we recognize the Sustainable
Development Goals specially to conserve and sustainably use our oceans and marine resources as
well as protecting, restoring and sustainably using our terrestrial ecosystems.

In Myanmar's Sustainable Development Plan (2018-2030), we clearly recognize the importance of
natural resources and the environment for the posterity of the nation. Under this plan MONREC will
ensure a clean environment together with healthy and functioning ecosystems as well as improving
land governance and sustainable management of resource-based industries ensuring our natural
resources dividend benefits all our people.
Myanmar's Red List of Ecosystems, our understanding of threats and this newly developed spatial
information will strengthen the implementation of our plans and strategies and ensure a sustainable
future for all of Myanmar.

H. E. U Ohn Winn  
Union Minister  
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Conservation